So here is your project.
You are gonna do this.
You're gonna make a checkout page for
our imaginary coffee app
called Coffee Masters.
Cuz obviously, coffee or
Frontend Masters deserve its own
coffee shop called Coffee Masters.
Here I'm gonna make you do all of
the HTML and the CSS yourself.
And anything I'm gonna throw at you,
this is hard.
I intentionally made this hard because
I want you to learn a lot about this.
Struggle through some things and
see if you can figure them out.
The logos here for Coffee Masters,
you can just download that or
you can link directly to it,
that's up to you.
I didn't talk a lot about
making rounded corners, but
you can just do that with border radius.
There's a link here on the article,
how to do all this various different
ways of doing border radius.
There's so many correct ways to do this.
You can do this with grid.
You can do this with flex.
That's totally up to you.
You also don't have to be exactly perfect,
that's totally fine as well.
I mean, if you look down here at my
example of it, This is how I did it.
It's not perfect to the exact design,
you'll find that happens very frequently
when you're working with the designer.
They'll give you like a Photoshop
document, or a Figma, or
something like that.
And you'll come back with
something that's pretty close and
hopefully that's good enough for them.
Sometimes they're pixel pushers and
they'll make you get it correct, but
this is what mine looks like.
These are inputs, right?
Okay.
HTML inputs can be styled
with CSS just as you expect.
We also didn't talk about box shadows.
But there's another thing in here if you
wanna add a box shadow to something.
So this will get into
how to do box shadows,
it's one of the least important things.
But a box shadow you can see here,
particularly for
things like that we want something to
look like a little raised off the page,
skeuomorphic, that's
how you would do that.
I took about 100 lines of
HTML to write all of it,
all of this about 150 lines of CSS 200,
something like that.
Again, my way is not the correct way,
it's a way to do this.
There's a lot of different
correct ways to do this.
I ended up using both grid and
flex, in several places.
So it's up to you of how
you wanna lay those out.
And you don't have to
match the design perfectly
If you look at mine
here on Coffee Masters,
notice this uses a interesting font,
this is called Open Sans.
It's a really common
font created by Google.
The way you'll load Open Sans on
your project is you can go ahead and
just drop this in your head.
Make sure you drop it
before your style tag.
And then you can just add font-Family Open
Sans, sans-serif to this little bit right
here to your body and that'll make
everything on your page be Open Sans.
And it looks like I'll fix a link there,
but Google fonts has so many
different fonts if you wanna load them and
they're all free and for open use.
And then I wanted to show, so one thing
that I thought might be difficult is that
I didn't really show you how to do,
this name for order right here.
How would you do that?
I kind of helped you
a little bit through that.
That I showed you here this is how I
would do it or how I literally did it.
So what this is,
this is actually the label.
So in HTML you can have a label for
inputs,
just tell people what that
particular input is supposed to be.
So you can see here this has example text,
right?
And then all I did is,
use a CSS property called position
to move things around relative
to where they're supposed to be.
So all I did was just move
the text on top of the input here.
And then I gave it a white
background to nicely
kind of eclipse the border
in a pleasant way.
If I put this to green, you can see that's
actually the background there.
But if it looks white, it looks like
it's supposed to be there, right.
So I'm using a little bit
of a trick to get it there.
And then,
all I do is move it left and top.
So this is a little counterintuitive.
Top is from the top and
left is from the left.
So if you move something left 25 pixels,
it ends up moving to the right, right?
But you say start from the left and
move to the right this way.
By the same token, if you say right,
let's just do it so you can see it.
Right 25 pixels, it starts from
the right and moves it to the left.
It can be a little counterintuitive.
That's what this position absolute does,
is it moves things absolutely.
But the key here is the group here,
cited the example group that
has a position relative on it,
which means anything inside of
this set tries to move absolutely
move relative to me rather than
move relatively to my parent.
So if I took this off, Notice it's gone.
I actually don't even know where it went.
Did it go all the way?
Yeah, it goes all the way to
the top of this particular thing,
because this must have positioned
relative on it for something else.
So make sure you have that
line of position relative.
And yeah, I feel pretty good about that.
Any questions about positioning or
trying to achieve the same effect here?
One of the least important
things about this list,
I want you to get the layout correct,
that's what I'm most concerned about.
Everything else here is
kind of a nice to have.
You might ask me how did I
come up with these values?
Just eyeballed it.
But like knows I can move it 35,
I can move 55, it just moves it over.
15, 5, at that point it's just taste.
Same thing was 7 pixels, this could
have been 10 but that's too high.
If I do it 3 that's too low,
7 just felt kind of right.
Padding here with 02 pixels that means
the top bottom are gonna have o pixels.
Like if I do 10 pixels here for example,
notice that it starts covering the text
underneath there,
you don't want that so, 0.
And then I wanted to occlude a little bit
of the border here, so I do 2 pixels.
If I do 0 pixels here notice
the border goes now right up to it.
Where if I do like 10 pixels that
covers too much of the border.
Anyway I'm trying to give you a little
bit of creative license here,
a lot of knobs to turn it and
mess around with.
Okay, I'm trying to think
if there's anything else in
here that might be difficult.
Let's take a look one more time at it.
I did have to end up using
position to move this border, or
this logo around a little bit
cuz it sits a little low, so
I moved it up a little bit
using the position relative.
If you give it a strong border radius
like a border radius of 100 pixels,
it's such a strong border radius that will
end rounding it, which is what I did here.
And then yeah, getting these ones
laid out correctly was difficult.
I think I ended up using grid here to get
this all the way that I wanted it to look.
And then I probably used
flex inside of that.
Okay, so I want you to give this a shot.
Again, I gave you some,
this is a pretty advanced layout.
I can actually see, I imagine most of you
could probably see this being like on
a tablet where you're checking out
your favorite coffee shop, right?
This is actually real designs that
I got from a real designer, right?
It's actually from the same designer
that designed this website and
he was doing it for something else, right?
So this is actually a real
design that you might get.
So it should be hard.
Should take you a good
amount of time to do this.
And it's okay if you don't fully get
there, it's okay if you have to peek at my
answer, I left you all the answers
here at the bottom, so yeah.